# WMTK Components

In the toolkit, we distinguish between _applications_ and _components_. Applications are used for prototyping. This is usually your entry point when writing new code. Once an application is fully implemented, it may become a component. Components are maintained as part of the toolkit and continuously tested in CI. We want to maintain high standards for our components, meaning the code should be cleaned up, documented, and tested! While unit tests are great and should be part of every component, we emphasize integration tests to ensure the entire application continues to work in the future, even if dependencies or core functionality change.

## Integration Tests

Each component should be accompanied by integration tests. One integration test is a full application run, specified by a parameter JSON file. All JSON files inside `data/integration_tests` are automatically executed in the CI.

The `data/integration_tests` folder is automatically downloaded from the [Data2 Repository](https://github.com/wildmeshing/data2) when the toolkit is compiled. To add a new integration test, add your JSON file to the [Data2 Repository](https://github.com/wildmeshing/data2) in the folder `integration_tests`. Also, make sure that the input data is available. If possible, please reuse models that are already available in the `models` folder. If you need an input that is not available there, push it along with your JSON file. Once the data repository is updated, update the `GIT_TAG` inside `cmake/wmtk_data.cmake`. As a final step, you need to add your integration test to `std::vector<std::string> input_files` inside `test/integration_tests.cpp`.

An integration test is considered successful if it terminates without throwing an exception. Therefore, please ensure that within your component, exceptions are thrown if the desired outcome is not achieved. For example, if your component minimizes an energy, throw an exception (use `log_and_throw_error()`) if the optimization did not converge. You can also add a `bool` to your JSON spec file (`..._spec.json`) to toggle that check. As an example, the _tetwild_ component includes the "throw_on_fail" entry in the JSON spec file, which does exactly that.
